You (the player) acquire blueprints which grant you the knowledge of how to paint defensive
bubble structures to fend off waves of fire, at the guidance of the Water Spirit.

In the early worlds, the Fire Spirit will make a few appearances, appearing as the antagonist
of the game, mocking you and the Water Spirit and preaching of your Hearth's (floating island)
destruction. At the end (and sometimes more frequently) of each world, she will send a
powerful mini-boss after you. However, when the mini-boss is defeated, she will show noticeable
sorrow.

The final boss of the main adventure mode will be the Fire Spirit herself, and rather than the
typical mini-boss behavior of picking off your front lines and randomly attacking your units,
she will put a significant emphasis on directly attacking the Hearth, forcing you to change
your defensive structure noticeably.

Upon defeating the Fire Spirit, the Water Spirit will congratulate you, and the man inside the
Hearth will reveal himself for the first time as the grandfather of the player. The Water
Spirit is your grandmother, both of which have passed away. The game will show you the man's
life accomplishments, having served as a firefighter for fifty years, saving thousands of
lives. The flashback ends with the man on his deathbed, surrounded by his descendants, but
notably not his wife (the grandmother). After the flashback ends, your grandfather hauntingly
remarks that the Fire Spirit is not gone yet. Upon returning to the main menu after exiting
the level, the game will notify you that you can choose to freely replay Adventure Mode levels
and also select whether you wish to replay former cutscenes and tutorials.

Notably, starting from the very first level, each Adventure Mode level now has an option to
replay it in Advanced difficulty. You may only play an Adventure Mode level in Advanced
difficulty if you have beaten the prior level in this difficulty as well, so this effectively
serves as an extension of the original Adventure Mode. In Advanced difficulty levels, there is
a roaring thunderstorm present, and purple, oily rain will cover the screen. This rain is
canonically poisonous, and thus does not amplify the player's water accumulation.

Advanced Adventure Mode levels also continue on the game's lore, but this lore and all cutscenes
and dialogue relating to it will not be shown unless the user has stated in their preferences
that their age is above a maturity threshold, due to some of its themes being graphic and
inappropriate for younger children. Additionally, when the player first attempts to play an
Advanced level, they will receive a pop-up warning that the Advanced level's lore will explore
heavy themes regarding grief, death, and guilt, and will depict graphic imagery, with the option
right there to toggle off the cutscenes.

The first noticeable change is that the Water Spirit will very rarely give gameplay advice to
you anymore, mainly as there are fewer unique mechanics to introduce and also because you've
already beaten the base game. However, very early on, a brief dialogue will occur between your
grandfather, grandmother, and an arbitrary enemy spirit. In this dialogue, the enemy taunts and
pleads to your grandfather, asking him why he never saved it. Your grandfather, stricken in grief
and anger, screams at him to get out. The Water Spirit attempts to console him, telling him that
he did everything he could, to no avail.

As you progress through the Advanced Adventure Mode levels, you learn more about the exact details
of your grandfather's life, via a long cutscene split apart across the many levels.

Beyond being a firefighter, he was a powerful wizard, willing water to serve at his command. He was
easily the strongest firefighter of his unit, able to charge into flaming buildings and retrieve
victims, himself barely burned, with water weaving around him. But his power came at the cost of a
curse. Despite the thousands of calls he was dispatched to, and thousands more people he rescued,
the dreaded day came, where he would hear the location of the blaze: his own apartment.

TLDR: He found that the water he once easily commanded was completely stagnant. Despite this oddity,
he still ran in to find his then-pregnant wife and baby, only had the strength to carry the baby out,
attempted to run back into save his wife but ended up collapsing inside with her and blacking out. He
woke up after being saved by medical professionals and other firefighters, but his wife ended up dying
in the hospital. Your grandmother passed away knowing how she would go, thus she went without regrets.
The baby, which would grow up to be your mother, was mostly unharmed. However, your grandfather never
forgave himself for failing to save your grandmother and his unborn daughter, foolishly believing he
could fight the curse.

Following that incident, your grandfather developed a heavy smoking addiction. In the many scenes of
him smoking, the color of the smoke is a dark, oily purple, very similar to the color of the rain in
the levels. You will eventually be shown the scene of your grandfather on his deathbed again with his
living family, but this time, he is surrounded by dark, purple spirits floating above him. After his
passing, he realises that he cannot go to the afterlife, due to how heavy his guilt and regrets are.

Near the end of the Advanced Adventure Mode, the Fire Spirit herself appears in dialogue, asking the
same question: "Why didn't you save me?" The Fire Spirit was the unborn child of your grandfather, in
your grandmother's womb when she succumbed to her injuries. Your grandmother defends your grandfather,
arguing it wasn't his fault but hers, but this argument between the two and your grandfather's battle
with his own guilt, fueled by the torment of the Fire Spirit and the many other smaller spirits
escalates until the Advanced version of the original Adventure Mode final boss level. In this level, it
is revealed that every single fiery enemy you must defeat is the spirit of a life that your grandfather
couldn't save, corrupted by the demon behind his curse. Since your grandmother never birthed a son,
the curse died with your grandfather, and thus the demon corrupted the casualties of fire that your
grandfather couldn't save and used them to torture him with guilt.

At the end of this battle, your grandmother (the Water Spirit) purifies the Fire Spirit by dousing her in
water, successfully severing the demon's influence from her. Your grandfather, grandmother, and unborn
aunt reconcile their differences. Your grandfather looks towards the entrance towards the afterlife, where
it should be hovering on top of the volcano, but finds he still cannot enter, meaning there's something more
that hasn't been resolved. It is at this time that the demon of his curse erupts from the volcano, showering
the screen in purple gloom.

After this cutscene, the player unlocks a secret final boss level, playable only in Advanced difficulty
(this level does not correspond to a level in the base Adventure Mode). The dark-purple demon appears as
the boss of this level, where both fire and water unite, turning your grandfather's various water turrets
into powerful steam cannons. Each blast of pure steam damages the oily, carcinogenic smoke that composes
the demon and the vast army he summons to attack. This level is far, far more difficult than anything seen
so far in the game (a good reference of difficulty is Super Mario 3D World vs its final level, Champion's
Road).

When the demon is defeated, the poison rain fades, and the gate to the afterlife opens. Your grandfather
has finally relinquished himself of his guilt, and may enter the afterlife. The same is true with your
unborn aunt. As your grandmother prepares to guide the two towards the light, you ask if what you did was
real.

She replies, "It depends. If what battles you fight in your dreams allow you to conquer your real fears,
then they are no less real than anything else you do. Are you strong enough to return home?"

You then ask, "Will we ever meet again?"

She replies, "Of course, dummy. We'll meet in the afterlife eventually. Until then, we'll still be here in
your dreams. We'll still use water to paint the skies. We'll visit you whenever you want. But for now, you
still have a lot more fighting left to do at home. Wake up."

With this, the sounds of the hospital fade into existence, as the scene fades into black. You suddenly
awaken, sitting up straight in a hospital bed, finally free from your coma. A year ago, a fire seemingly
spread out of nowhere in your home, nearly ending your life. In your slumber, teetering between life and
death, despite the demon's presence in your family being very real up until that fire, you finally freed
your bloodline from its influence.

The credits roll, then the player is returned to the main menu of the game. At this point, the player
is considered to have 100%'d the game. (I'm not sure if the final level should be locked until the player
completes every last bit of content the game has to offer)
